#summary Configuration of extension.
All configuration of sitemaps are processed from *protected/config/main.php* file.

==Single sitemap.xml file==
Default configuration is:
{{{
<?php
return array(
	...
	'controllerMap'=>array(
		'sitemap'=>array(
			'class'=>'ext.sitemapgenerator.SGController',
			'config'=>array(
				'sitemap.xml'=>array(
					'aliases'=>array(
						'application.controllers',
					),
				),
			),
		),
	),
	...
);
}}}

*Parameters for sitemap.xml file*
{{{
...
'config'=>array(
	'sitemap.xml'=>array(
		'aliases'=>'application.controllers',		
// Other optional parameters (will be used as defaults for all sitemap URLs)
		'routeStructure'=>'application,modules,controllers',
		'lastmod'=>time(),
		'priority'=>0.6,
		'changefreq'=>'yearly',
		'enabled'=>true,	// allow to disable sitemap (debug option)
	),
),
...
}}}
Note:

*aliases* parameter describes where extension should search for URLs data for current sitemap file. Can direct to folder of controllers or single controller. Specified as basic yii-alias record. Can be set as an array of aliases, or comma-separated string.

*routeStructure* parameter describes structure of yii routes. By default it's: _'application,modules,controllers'_. Used for URL route resolving.

Also you may configure *class pre-import* and *caching* for sitemap files. Please see corresponding wiki articles PreImportConfiguration and CacheConfiguration.

==Multiple sitemaps and sitemap index file==
Configuration of multiple sitemaps files is identical to single, except that _sitemap.xml_ record must have only single option _'index'_ set to *true*.

Example:
{{{
'config'=>array(
	'sitemap.xml'=>array(
		'index'=>true, // Indicates that index file used
	),
	// All keys must begin with 'sitemap'
	'sitemapForum.xml'=>array(
		'aliases'=>array(
			'application.modules.forum.controllers',
		),
	),
	'sitemapBlog.xml'=>array(
		'aliases'=>array(
			'application.modules.blog.controllers',
		),
	),
),
}}}
Note: for every sitemap file available the same configuration parameters as was shown in first section (single sitemap.xml file).